CS 512 - COMPUTER VISION course by Professor Gady Agam.

Cameras and computers are everywhere. Can we make computers see? Can we make computers respond to our behavior? Automated sensing by computers is a key element in ubiquitous computing. Similar to the importance of vision in humans, cameras are the most eminent sensors computers may have. By using cameras, computers can interact with people, inspect and monitor various processes, and identify people and behavior. Computer vision is a rapidly evolving field of study in computer science which is facilitated by recent years developments in computing hardware.

Advanced computer hardware is now a standard component in off the shelf PCs, and digital cameras are cheap and abundant. The consequence of which is a surge in graphics and imaging applications. Computer vision aims at the analysis of the real world based on images captured by one or more cameras or similar sensory data for various purposes. Such analysis is a common practice in industrial, medical, military, and scientific applications such as product inspection and quality control, surveillance and monitoring, automated recognition of objects, robot guidance, human motion tracking, document/handwriting analysis, and augmented and virtualized reality. 

CS512 Topics: 
overview of computer vision and related areas, extraction of features from images, probabilistic modeling in images, camera calibration, epipolar geometry estimation, statistical estimation, model reconstruction from images, statistical filtering and tracking in video sequences, motion estimation in video sequences, optical flow, and object recognition. The course serves as a good starting point for graduate students interested in getting acquainted with the area of computer vision as well as for students interested in pursuing the area of visual computing in greater detail. The course assumes a basic knowledge of calculus and linear algebra and some programming experience. Programming assignments in the course will use the OpenCV standard to support capturing and manipulation of images and videos.
